[narr]
Closing Ceremony.
[ann]
And at this time,
we ask the captain
of Team Nankatsu
to receive the banner
commemorating
their championship
of the sixth
national tournament.
Yeah.
[applause]
[cheering]
Congratulations, kid.
Thank you very much, sir.
[ann]
And just like that,
Tsubasa Ozora takes
his banner for his team,
crowning themselves as
the new champions.
[chuckle]
Yeah!
[narr] Episode 28:
Everyone's Setting Off.
[ann]
What a wonderful moment
to see Nankatsu's captain
raise the banner
for everyone to see.
There's smiles
all around Nankatsu's faces.
-Champions!
-We actually did it!
-You guys rock!
-Go Nankatsu!
Tsubasa, you really made it.
Congratulations.
My Tsubasa...
[laughing]
[ann] The young
Tsubasa Ozora
has placed himself
as the most valuable player
in the whole tournament.
Achieving a whopping
total of 31 personal goals.
[Mrs. Ozora]
Darling, our Tsubasa won.
He actually did it, Roberto.
Roberto?
Where could he have gone?
-[laugh]
-[ann] And of course,
Nankatsu's number 11
- Taro Misaki,
-[laugh]
achieved the most
assists in the tournament.
The best 20 players
of the tournament
can see themselves
on this screen.
We're sure that
these young players
are a true aspiration
to soccer
for our beloved nation.
Tsubasa, how does it feel
to win the national
tournament?
Well, I'm as happy
as I can be.
Now that you've won,
what will be your next goal
in mind?
Well, right now,
I'll be going to Brazil
with Roberto.
I'm very proud of you all.
You guys played
your best out there.
-Thank you!
[Kaori]
It was an excellent game.
-Huh?
I-I-It's you again.
My dear Hyuga...
I've decided to recruit you.
You'll be part of
Toho Academy.
What do you say?
Huh? What?
But... But how?
I've just lost the match.
Yes. you did.
In fact, we're also thinking
of recruiting young Tsubasa.
[Kaori]
However,
-our idea isn't to have him
-Congratulations, Tsubasa.
-as our main scorer,
-You were incredible!
-but as the catalyst
-Thanks, that means so much
-of the team.
-to me, guys.
-Congratulations, Tsubasa.
-Thanks!
That's exactly why
we want that you, Hyuga,
to be our...star scorer.
What?
And if that's the case,
we will be able to receive
the two of you
into our school.
Starting today onward,
you'll both be
the next golden duo of
Toho Academy Soccer Club.
Uh... What?
We'll be the next
golden duo, lady?
-That sounds incredible.
-Huh?
You and Tsubasa will be
invincible, Captain.
What do you say, Hyuga?
Do you accept?
Uh, but uh...
But I...
[Mr. Kira]
Why are you hesitating?
Kojiro, accept it.
This is your opportunity to
make your dream come true.
I know that coach, but...
Big Brother!
[laughing]
It's my family
and my friends.
We're happy you got
a scholarship, Brother!
That's right.
You made it, Kojiro!
I know that
losing to Tsubasa
can be a bit uncomfortable
for you,
so take your time
and think about it.
We'll be going.
Yes.
-You have to accept.
Hm...
[chuckle]
Yes, I accept.
I'll be the star scorer
of Toho Academy!
[laughing]
[gasp]
Misaki...
Thank you for
all of your help.
Mhm.
[chuckle]
-[Mrs. Ozora] Tsubasa!
-Huh?
Mom.
Darling,
I found this letter.
It was in the hotel.
Huh?
Roberto left.
He left to the airport
by himself
to go back to Brazil.
What?!
But why would he?
He promised I'd go with him.
Why did he leave?
Why did Roberto leave
without me?
He told me, if I won,
we'd go to Brazil.
Tsubasa...
We can figure this out.
You could still catch him
if you leave right now,
Tsubasa.
Huh?
That's right.
If you get to
the airport quickly,
you can still
catch up to him.
-Sir, could you help?
-Yeah, sure!
Best of luck to you.
Brazil's always been
your dream.
Catch up to Roberto.
Do it.
[Tsubasa]
"This is to Tsubasa.
"Please forgive me.
- "I'm deeply sorry,
-[Roberto] I'm deeply sorry,
- "but I can't take you
- but I can't take you
- "to Brazil with me."
- to Brazil with me.
As you well know,
due to my incurable
sight condition...
It's no longer possible
for me
to keep playing soccer.
For someone who lived
from the sport,
it was a devastating blow.
But thanks to someone,
I was able to get back
on the path.
And that someone...
is you.
By seeing you play
and discover your talent
in the field...
It made me want to
train you
and make you the best
player in the world.
But now I know...
that I can't.
I can't take you with me
to Brazil.
And even if I did,
I'd be separating you
from your family...
I can't do that to them,
Tsubasa.
But there is another reason
I haven't told you about.
And that is...
It doesn't matter
what I do...
Ever since I decided
to leave soccer...
my reputation just isn't
what it used to be.
In the end...
I'd be making
the situation worse
by making you my player.
It wouldn't do you any good.
I hate to admit it, but...
I'm afraid I no longer
have anything left
to possibly teach you.
If I would've decided
to keep training you...
I'd be nothing
but a burden to you
due to my eye condition.
Please understand.
He isn't answering.
I think he turned off
his cellphone, darling.
-[gasp]
-It's sending me
straight to voicemail.
Roberto...
You aren't
a burden to me.
You taught me...
You taught me how to play
real soccer.
You did that!
[Roberto]
Tsubasa...
Even if you remain in Japan,
I know that you'll develop
your skills.
I know that without me,
you'll become the greatest
player ever.
Today is probably
the last day...
that you and I
see each other.
Tsubasa...
Farewell.
[grunt]
[panting]
Going to Brazil
with Roberto...
was my only motivation
this whole time.
[panting]
[gasp]
And I won the tournament
just like I promised.
[panting]
Why did you abandon me?!
[pants]
[gasp]
[Tsubasa]
Roberto!
[grunt]
[panting]
Roberto!
[Tsubasa]
[panting]
Roberto!
Roberto...
Why?
[sob]
Roberto, why did you
abandon me?!
No!
[narr] We'll be right back
with Captain Tsubasa.
[narr]
And we're back!
Sometime after
the national tournament.
Huh?
Son, did you finish
-packing your things?
-Oh...
Yeah, I'm almost
done here.
We have to leave soon, Son.
I know, Dad.
[narr] Nankatsu
Soccer Club.
Hey, everybody,
sorry to have made you come
all the way to our school.
Don't sweat it, Ryo.
Misaki is an important
team member to all of us.
We wouldn't let him leave
just like that.
I even managed to get
Wakabayashi
to sign it as well.
[Takeshi]
He'll come tomorrow
to say bye to him too.
It looks like Tsubasa
won't be able to
make it today.
Maybe not...
He's still pretty depressed
about Roberto.
I hope he's doing okay.
I would like to know...
what he'll do now that
Roberto's gone.
-Hmm...
I heard somewhere that...
Tsubasa was recruited
to play for Toho Academy.
I heard it too.
That's incredible.
Not everyone has the luck
to be invited
to play for their team.
Just because he got invited
doesn't mean
he'll accept it.
If he stays with us,
we can be in Nankatsu
Middle school's youth team.
Yeah, but with his talent
and skill,
it would be a shame for him
to have to stay
in a public school
like ours, you know.
Well, at least now
we'll know just...
which of the teams
is better.
Nankatsu's original team
or Shutetsu right?
Aww...
Huh? Are you okay, Shingo?
What's wrong?
It's just...
if we go back
to our school...
the Nankatsu team
will be completely...
divided now.
-Hmm...
Yeah, and that's
exactly why...
we need Misaki...
to receive a message from
Tsubasa with this ball.
So then Taro...
did you tell them we'd be
leaving tomorrow morning?
Yeah.
-[gasp]
-Huh?
Look there,
it's Misaki!
Huh?
[gasp]
Everyone...
Misaki!
Why're you carrying
your luggage?
You were supposed to
leave tomorrow.
Why'd you lie to us?
I'm sorry.
I thought it'd be too hard
to say goodbye to you guys
after everything
we've been through.
That would've been
messed up, Misaki!
I'm sorry.
Ryo, we can't keep
waiting any longer.
Yeah, I know we can't.
Misaki, what time
is your bus leaving?
[gasp]
Like in 15 minutes
I suppose.
Okay then,
I'm going to have to
run over to
Tsubasa's house real fast.
And meanwhile,
we'll go get Genzo.
-Yeah.
All my friends...
[Ryo] What?
He's not here?!
Yeah, he got out of
the house early.
I think he was headed
towards the river.
Is something wrong?
It's an emergency.
Misaki leaves today!
What?!
Roberto left behind
this book with the letter.
These are all the notes
he took.
Advice and ways to practice.
He's had this book with him
since he started his career
as a professional
soccer player,
and now, I've inherit it.
But...
Roberto...
I...
I just wanted to go
to Brazil with you.
-[Ryo] Tsubasa!
-Huh?
[panting]
Ishizaki...
It's an emergency!
Misaki is leaving.
What?
[gasp]
[Manabu]
The bus is on its way.
Huh?
Ishizaki, you need to
hurry up.
Hmm...
Get on the bus.
It's time to go.
Yeah.
Everyone, please take care
of yourselves.
So you're really leaving,
Taro?
Mhm.
Please let Tsubasa
know I said goodbye.
[pants]
Have a safe trip, Misaki.
You take care, Misaki.
Take care, all right?
Take care!
-Be good out there, Misaki!
-Ah!
-[Tsubasa] Misaki!
-Huh?
[panting]
Oh!
-[Taro] Tsubasa!
-[panting]
[panting]
Misaki!
[pants]
Ah...
Misaki!
Ah!
Goodbye!
Take care, Tsubasa!
Everything will work out!
-[panting]
-Tsubasa!
Here!
Taro, catch the ball!
[gasps]
Ah!
Huh?
[Tsubasa]
To the best partner.
Tsubasa.
Goodbye, Taro.
Oh... Ah!
Thank you so much
for everything, Tsubasa.
Thanks so much, everybody!
Take care, Taro.
We'll see each other soon.
[Genzo]
Taro isn't the only one
-that's leaving.
-Huh?
[Tsubasa]
Genzo...
What do you mean by that?
What're you talking about?
Well, it's just that...
I'm going to play
in Germany.
Genzo...
Next school year,
you'll be in middle school.
I know...
I have to tell you
something important.
Unfortunately, I can't keep
being your trainer here.
-I'm deeply sorry.
-What?!
The Japanese soccer
association
has requested for me to
attend a special seminar
of trainers
hosted in Germany.
The reason
they're doing this
is so we can better
the level of the players
here in Japan.
And...
when are you leaving?
I have to leave
in the beginning of spring.
And I'll be spending
two whole years there
learning everything
about the style of play
they're teaching
in Europe nowadays.
But I wanted to
ask you this...
Genzo, tell me,
would you like to
come to Germany with me?
Are you serious?
-[gasp]
-No...
So then you're leaving
to Germany now?
Tsubasa, when I heard that
you were going to Brazil,
I started to think
a lot about
my professional career.
If I want to be
a professional player,
I have to learn to play soccer
at the world level.
The soccer league
in Germany
is one of the best
in the world.
And they have the best
goalies to ever live.
That's the main reason
I want to go.
I wish to be the best
goalkeeper in the world.
-Wakabayashi...
-But Captain,
it's just that--
Genzo, I wish you...
the best of luck.
I'm sure nothing will get
on the way of your dreams.
Thank you.
I'll do my best.
But before I leave...
Tsubasa, I'm asking you
to please
let me have one last duel
against you.
Mhm.
I was about to
ask the same of you.
[narr]
One week later.
The first time that
you and I saw each other,
it was in this exact
same field, my friend.
And here we are again.
The goodbye.
I'm ready, Tsubasa.
Shoot whenever you'd like.
I'm coming.
Tsubasa.
And Genzo...
Here I go!
Hmm...
Genzo, prepare yourself.
No one will score on me
from outside
the goalkeeper's box.
[yell]
[gasp]
It... It slipped past him!
-[gasps]
-It can't be...
It hit the goal post.
Tsubasa!
[yell]
-He... He stopped it.
-[groan]
[gasps]
Did you see that?
[groaning]
[groan] I didn't expect
any less from you.
I can say the same.
The truth is that...
Thankfully, the ball
came my way.
It was luck
more than anything.
[grunt]
Tsubasa...
Until I become
a professional player...
I won't be stepping
on this field...
Huh?
Genzo...
I, um...
I decided...
-Uh...
Mhm.
I have decided to stay
in Japan with everyone.
-[laugh]
-Yeah! I love you!
-Yeah!
We'll be able to
keep playing
by our captain's side.
I won't ever give up
on my dream.
I'm going to play for
Nankatsu's middle school,
and one day, I'll go to
Brazil on my own merit.
That sounds great.
So then, the next time
we play together
will be when we're
representing our country.
Yeah.
[Genzo]
We'll see each other again.
Until then, Tsubasa.
[narr]
Three years later.
[Katagiri] Genzo Wakabayashi
managed to stop the penalty
in yesterday's game.
He's a step away
from becoming
the starter goalie
for the second team
in his German school.
[reac]
Excellent.
[Teppei]
Hey, Ishizaki!
-[narr] Nankatsu
-[Ryo] Hello!
- Middle School.
-[Teppei] Did you get to
rest up during the summer?
Not at all.
You know that we've been
playing like crazy
every single day against
the other middle schools
in the other prefectures,
right?
We only had three days
of rest
and that's not nearly
enough to recover fully.
Yeah, three days isn't much.
Well, now that Tsubasa
is playing with us,
it's rare to lose a game
at all,
but even then, they never
give us an easy game.
Exactly.
Never.
Stop lying.
I heard that Tsubasa
got called to be in
a special training camp
with the players of...
Good morning, Sanae.
Good morning.
[Katagiri] The center
forwards of Nankatsu,
Izawa, Kisugi, Taki
and Takasugi
got into the same school
as Tsubasa
with the mindset of
improving their skills
and becoming better
as a team.
Even we are talking about
a public school,
they now have
the best soccer team
in the region.
On the other hand,
Urabe, Kishida, Nishio,
and Nakayama
from the old
Nankatsu team...
got into Otomo
Middle School.
Now they're Nankatsu
Middle School's rivals,
and they're lead by
someone very different
from Tsubasa.
-[narr] Toho Academy's
-Come on!
- training camp.
-Yeah!
- Toho Academy's
-[Kojiro] What are
- youth team.
-you doing?
You have to respect
your place in the field.
If you keep
-going like that,
-Over here!
we won't be able to beat
Team Nankatsu
-this year either.
-Come on, man!
[Ken]
Exactly.
This time, we'll finally
defeat Tsubasa Ozora.
[Kaori]
Hyuga.
Huh?
I want to introduce you
our newest player.
It's been quite a while,
hasn't it, captain Hyuga?
Mhm.
Welcome, Takeshi.
Thank you.
[Kojiro] Okay, now we really
are a complete team.
This time, Toho Academy will
break their losing streak
in the national tournament
at last!
Yeah!
[laugh]
Come on!
Look alive!
-Keep at it!
-Yeah! Over here!
We have to be in good shape.
[grunts]
Come on!
[gasp]
Hello, everyone.
How about we pass the ball?
Tsubasa...
Sure, just don't make any
difficult passes, Tsubasa.
Fly!
[Katagiri] Finally,
Nankatsu's captain,
Tsubasa Ozora,
who now leads
his middle school team
is aiming for his third
consecutive victory
in the national tournament.
Tsubasa Ozora,
Kojiro Hyuga...
The destined rivals
will meet again.
They're the promise of
Japanese soccer's future.
They are going to represent
us in the world stage.
[laughs]
Everyone,
let's go train some more!
-Yeah!